The objective of this design project was to simulate and learn about the functionality of a cache controller and its interaction with block memory (SRAM) and SDRAM-controllers. The project allowed us to gain experience in the implementation and design of custom logic controllers interfacing with other logic and memory devices. In addition, knowledge of VHDL-coding was further developed within the Xilinx ISE CAD environment and hardware evaluation was performed on the Xilinx Spartan-3E FPGA.

The approach to the project was to begin implementation using a provided CPU VHDL file which sourced instructions to the cache controller and other components. Another set of VHDL code for the Block Memory (SRAM) was provided via the Tutorial 3 on the course shell which functioned as local memory for word storage. Other logical components including an Address Word Register, Functional State Machine (FSM), and SDRAM Controller were developed in agreement with the provided components to function as specified. 

The result of this design resulted in a functional Cache Controller which acted dynamically the SRAM and SDRAM-controllers as well as numerous logical components. Essentially, the CPU would output instructions to the cache controller which would filter these inputs through several behavioral cases that dictated the flow of data. These HIT or MISS cases were dependent on TAG provided from the CPU and in regards to existing TAG, Validity, and Dirty bit contents within the SRAM cache. The resulting design was observed and tested using Functional Simulations (waveforms) in addition to ChipScope ICON and ILA cores to examine outputs.
